Congratulations on completing the course.
Now that you have explored the theoretical concepts and practical applications of machine
learning, you will find plenty of opportunities to continue learning and applying your skills.
Now let's review some key aspects of what you learned throughout the course.
Machine learning, ML, is a subset of artificial intelligence, or AI, that involves using data
and algorithms to allow computers to imitate how humans learn and make decisions, gradually
improving their accuracy.
ML has many applications in the modern world.
In healthcare, doctors use machine learning to prescribe the correct medicine to their
patients.
Bankers use machine learning to decide whether to approve or reject a loan application.
E-commerce businesses use machine learning to generate customer recommendations.
Machine learning models learn using supervised, unsupervised, semi-supervised, and reinforcement learning methods.
Selecting a machine learning technique depends on several factors, such as the problem you're
trying to solve, the type of data you have, the available resources, and the desired outcome.
Machine learning tools provide functionalities for machine learning pipelines, which include
modules for data preprocessing and building, evaluating, optimizing, and implementing machine
learning models.
These tools use algorithms to simplify complex tasks, such as handling big data, conducting
statistical analyses, and making predictions.
Regression is a type of supervised learning model.
It models a relationship between a continuous target variable and explanatory features.
Simple regression is when a single independent variable estimates a dependent variable.
This regression can be linear or nonlinear.
When more than one independent variable is present, the process is called multiple regression.
Multiple linear regression is an extension of the simple linear regression model.
It uses two or more independent variables to estimate a dependent variable.
In logistical regression training, you look for the best parameters that map the input
features to the target outcomes.
The objective is to predict classes with minimal error.
Classification is a supervised machine learning, or ML, method that uses fully trained models
to predict labels on new data.
The labels in classification form a categorical variable with discrete values.
Classification has several applications in a wide variety of industries.
It can be used to build applications for email filtering, speech-to-text, handwriting
recognition, biometric identification, document classification, and much more.
K-Nearest Neighbors, or KNN, is a supervised machine learning algorithm that takes a group
of labeled data points and then uses them to learn to label other data points.
KNN is used for both classification and regression.
Support Vector Machines, or SVM, is a supervised learning technique for building classification
and regression models.
It maps each data instance as a point in multidimensional space, where the input features
are represented as a value for a specific coordinate.
SVM is good for machine learning problems, such as speech recognition, anomaly detection,
and noise filtering.
A decision tree is an algorithm for classifying data points.
In a decision tree, each internal node corresponds to a test.
Each branch corresponds to the result of the test, and each terminal, or leaf node, assigns
its data to a class.
Regression trees are built by considering the features of a data set, one by one.
A regression tree is analogous to a decision tree that predicts continuous values rather
than discrete classes.
The distinguishing feature between classification and regression is the characteristic of the
target, or labeled data.
Regression trees are created by recursively splitting the data set into subsets to maximize
information gained from data splitting.
This process generates a tree-like structure and minimizes the randomness of the classes
assigned to the split nodes.
Clustering, dimension reduction, and feature engineering are complementary techniques in
machine learning and data science.
They work well together to improve model performance, quality, and interpretability.
Clustering automatically groups data points into clusters based on similarities.
It can be applied in various scenarios, such as identifying music genres, segmenting user
groups, or analyzing market segments.
Dimension reduction simplifies the visualization of high-dimensional clustering, aiding feature
engineering and improving model quality.
It also reduces the number of features required for a data model.
Dimensionality reduction algorithms reduce the number of data set features without sacrificing
critical data set information.
High-dimensional data is often very difficult to analyze and visualize.
Dimensionality reduction algorithms simplify the data set for machine learning models.
Supervised learning evaluation establishes how well a machine learning model can predict
the outcome for unseen data.
It is essential for understanding model effectiveness and involves comparing model predictions to
ground-truth labels.
Common metrics for evaluating classification models include accuracy, confusion matrix,
precision, and recall.
Regression models are not foolproof.
They often make prediction errors.
Evaluating a regression model involves determining how accurately the model can predict continuous
numerical values, such as exam grades.
Unsupervised techniques, such as clustering and dimensionality reduction, aim to discover
hidden patterns and structures in data.
Therefore, evaluation methods assess the quality of these patterns and how effectively the
model groups similar data points.
Model validation is a method to optimize your ML model without jeopardizing its ability
to predict well on unseen data.
It helps you prevent overfitting when selecting the best model configuration by tuning hyperparameters
Checking performance on the test data before you are done optimizing your model is called
data snooping, a form of data leakage.
Validation means tuning your model on the training data but only testing it on unseen
test data once you are satisfied that it is well trained.
There is no snooping involved.
Now that you've reviewed some of the fundamental ideas presented in this course, remember that
each module has a summary and a glossary.
You can use them to quickly reference much of what you have learned.
To strengthen your learning from this course, actively participate in and complete the practice
assessment at the end of each lesson and the graded assessment at the end of each module
offered across the course.
The course contains multiple hands-on labs and a final project to help you gain practical
exposure to the tools and technologies you learned.
Congratulations on completing this course and good luck on your journey with machine learning.